content/account/account-settings.md, before:

---
title: "Settings"
date: 2021-01-16
draft: false
weight: 3
description: "Manage your account."
---

To manage your account settings, log in in to the dashboard and visit the account settings page. You can do that by clicking on your name in the top right corner and clicking on *Account*.

![Manage Account](/account/account.png)

## User Interface

We offer a dark mode (default) and a light mode for the dashboard. You can switch between them by clicking the toggle.

## Picture

Upload a picture to personalize your dashboard. The picture will also be displayed to other website owners after they have added you to their websites in the member list.

## Email Address

Here you can change your email address. You will have to confirm the new email address before it becomes active.

## Password

Here you can change your password. Enter your current password to confirm the action.

## Newsletter

Toggle the checkbox to receive our newsletter. We promise we won't bother you too often.

## Delete Your Account

Here you can delete your account. Read more about it [here]({{< ref "account/delete-an-account.md" >}}).

Commit message:

Added timezones to documentation and other little improvements, updated changelog.

content/account/account-settings.md, after:

---
title: "Settings"
date: 2021-05-27
draft: false
weight: 3
description: "Manage your account."
---

To manage your account settings, log in in to the dashboard and visit the account settings page. You can do that by clicking on your name in the top right corner and clicking on *Account*.

![Manage Account](/account/account.png)

## User Interface

We offer a dark mode (default) and a light mode for the dashboard. You can switch between them by clicking the toggle.

The default time range filter will be used to filter the statistics when no range has been selected.

The timezone will be used to pre-select a timezone when adding new domains. Note that the timezone must be set on a pre-domain basis and won't be used if none is set. It will fallback to UTC in that case. You can learn more about timezones on the [website settings]({{< ref "dashboard/general-settings.md" >}}) page.

## Picture

Upload a picture to personalize your dashboard. The picture will also be displayed to other website owners after they have added you to their websites in the member list.

## Email Address

Here you can change your email address. You will have to confirm the new email address before it becomes active.

## Password

Here you can change your password. Enter your current password to confirm the action.

## Newsletter

Toggle the checkbox to receive our newsletter. We promise we won't bother you too often.

## Delete Your Account

Here you can delete your account. Read more about it [here]({{< ref "account/delete-an-account.md" >}}).
