content/account/create-an-account.md, before:

---
title: "Create an Account"
date: 2021-01-16
draft: false
weight: 1
description: "Getting started with Pirsch only takes a couple of minutes, see how to do it."
---

You need to have an account to access non-public dashboards and add your domains. To create a new account, follow the steps below. We only require you to enter your full name and email address. Should you decide to continue using Pirsch after your 30-day free trial, you need to add your address and payment details.

1. visit [pirsch.io/signup](https://pirsch.io/signup)
2. enter your full name, email address, and confirm that you're human
3. confirm your email address by clicking on the link inside the email that has been sent to you
4. on the confirmation page, enter your password, and accept the [privacy policy](https://pirsch.io/privacy) and [terms and conditions](https://pirsch.io/terms)

And you're done! You can now start adding your first domain and integrate Pirsch into your website. Make sure you read our [getting started]({{<ref "get-started/_index.md">}}) articles.

## I Didn't Receive the Confirmation Email

In case you didn't receive the confirmation email, please check your junk inbox, try to sign up again, or send an email to [support@pirsch.io](mailto:support@pirsch.io) and we will get back to you quickly.

## Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions

Make sure you've read our [privacy policy](https://pirsch.io/privacy) and [terms and conditions](https://pirsch.io/terms) before signing up. You can also read the [privacy article]({{<ref "privacy.md">}}) to learn more about how we respect the privacy of your visitors.

Commit message:

Updated API docs, access token clients, additional domains, sign up.

content/account/create-an-account.md, after:

---
title: "Create an Account"
date: 2022-05-20
draft: false
weight: 1
description: "Getting started with Pirsch only takes a couple of minutes, see how to do it."
---

You need to have an account to access non-public dashboards and add your websites. To create an account, follow the steps below. We only require you to enter your name (does not need to be your real name) and email address. Should you decide to continue using Pirsch after your 30-day free trial, you will have to add your address and payment details on the billing page.

1. visit [pirsch.io/signup](https://pirsch.io/signup)
2. enter your email address and click *Continue*
3. confirm your email address by clicking on the link inside the email that has been sent to you
4. on the confirmation page, enter your name, password, and accept the [privacy policy](https://pirsch.io/privacy) and [terms and conditions](https://pirsch.io/terms)

And you're done! You can now start adding your first domain and integrate Pirsch into your website. Make sure you read our [getting started]({{<ref "get-started/_index.md">}}) articles.

## I Didn't Receive the Confirmation Email

In case you didn't receive the confirmation email, please check your junk inbox, try to sign up again, or send an email to [support@pirsch.io](mailto:support@pirsch.io) and we will get back to you quickly.

## Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions

Make sure you've read our [privacy policy](https://pirsch.io/privacy) and [terms and conditions](https://pirsch.io/terms) before signing up. You can also read the [privacy article]({{<ref "privacy.md">}}) to learn more about how we respect the privacy of your visitors.
