content/dashboard/embedding.md, before:

---
title: "Embedding the Dashboard"
date: 2021-11-06
draft: false
weight: 6
description: "Learn how you can embed your dashboard on another website using an iframe."
---

You can embed your dashboard on another website using an iframe, allowing you to showcase your statistics or integrate them into an application.

## Embedding Your Dashboard

To embed your dashboard, you first need to make your dashboard public or create an access link.

Navigate to the access settings page and toggle the *Public Dashboard* option or click on *Add Access Link*. When creating an access link, chose a name that you will recognize later.

![Access Settings](/dashboard/embed-access.png)

The last step is to add your public dashboard URL or access link to an iframe. Copy the URL/access link and place it inside the `src` attribute of the iframe. The URL is displayed below the *Public Dashboard* toggle, the access link is displayed after creation.

```HTML
<iframe src="http://dev.pirsch.io/?domain=pirsch.io&interval=14d&ui=hide"
    width="1200"
    height="800"
    style="border-width: 0;"></iframe>
```

In this example, we set the width and height of the iframe and removed the border. The URL has some additional parameters (`?domain=...`). You can copy these from your regular dashboard URL in case you would like to add filter options. In this case, the interval is set to the past 14 days and the menu and footer will be hidden (by setting `ui` to `hide`).

Commit message:

Added option for light/dark mode when embedding the dashboard and updated changelog.

content/dashboard/embedding.md, after:

---
title: "Embedding the Dashboard"
date: 2022-06-23
draft: false
weight: 6
description: "Learn how you can embed your dashboard on another website using an iframe."
---

You can embed your dashboard on another website using an iframe, allowing you to showcase your statistics or integrate them into an application.

## Embedding Your Dashboard

To embed your dashboard, you first need to make your dashboard public or create an access link.

Navigate to the access settings page and toggle the *Public Dashboard* option or click on *Add Access Link*. When creating an access link, chose a name that you will recognize later.

![Access Settings](/dashboard/embed-access.png)

The last step is to add your public dashboard URL or access link to an iframe. Copy the URL/access link and place it inside the `src` attribute of the iframe. The URL is displayed below the *Public Dashboard* toggle, the access link is displayed after creation.

```HTML
<iframe src="http://dev.pirsch.io/?domain=pirsch.io&interval=14d&ui=hide"
    width="1200"
    height="800"
    style="border-width: 0;"></iframe>
```

In this example, we set the width and height of the iframe and removed the border. The URL has some additional parameters (`?domain=...`). You can copy these from your regular dashboard URL in case you would like to add filter options.

## UI Options

There are additional parameters to modify the dashboard UI.

* `ui=hide` will hide the Pirsch header and footer, so you get a clean dashboard
* `mode=dark` or `mode=light` set the dark or light mode for the dashboard. This overwrites the user's system settings
